# algoa-gtfs

This project contains source code and supporting files for a serverless application that you can deploy with the SAM CLI. It includes the following files and folders.

- generate-gtfs - Code for the application's Lambda function written in TypeScript.
- events - Invocation events that you can use to invoke the function.
- generate-gtfs/tests - Unit tests for the application code. 
- template.yaml - A template that defines the application's AWS resources.

## Deploy the application
To use the SAM CLI, you need the following tools.

* SAM CLI - [Install the SAM CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-install.html)
* Node.js - [Install Node.js 18](https://nodejs.org/en/), including the NPM package management tool.
* Docker - [Install Docker community edition](https://hub.docker.com/search/?type=edition&offering=community)

To build and deploy your application for the first time, run the following in your shell:

```bash
sam build
sam deploy --guided
```

The first command will build the source of your application. The second command will package and deploy your application to AWS, with a series of prompts (unnecessary).


## Use the SAM CLI to build and test locally

Install the prerequisites from the last step.

Build your application with the `sam build` command.

```bash
algoa-gtfs$ sam build
```

The SAM CLI installs dependencies defined in `hello-world/package.json`, compiles TypeScript with esbuild, creates a deployment package, and saves it in the `.aws-sam/build` folder.

Run functions locally and invoke them with the `sam local invoke` command.

```bash
algoa-gtfs$ sam local invoke 
```

## Add a resource to your application
The application template uses AWS Serverless Application Model (AWS SAM) to define application resources. AWS SAM is an extension of AWS CloudFormation with a simpler syntax for configuring common serverless application resources such as functions, triggers, and APIs. For resources not included in [the SAM specification](https://github.com/awslabs/serverless-application-model/blob/master/versions/2016-10-31.md), you can use standard [AWS CloudFormation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-template-resource-type-ref.html) resource types.

## Fetch, tail, and filter Lambda function logs

To simplify troubleshooting, SAM CLI has a command called `sam logs`. `sam logs` lets you fetch logs generated by your deployed Lambda function from the command line. In addition to printing the logs on the terminal, this command has several nifty features to help you quickly find the bug.

`NOTE`: This command works for all AWS Lambda functions; not just the ones you deploy using SAM.

```bash
algoa-gtfs$ sam logs -n HelloWorldFunction --stack-name algoa-gtfs --tail
```

You can find more information and examples about filtering Lambda function logs in the [SAM CLI Documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/serverless-sam-cli-logging.html).

## Unit tests

Tests are defined in the `hello-world/tests` folder in this project. Use NPM to install the [Jest test framework](https://jestjs.io/) and run unit tests.

```bash
algoa-gtfs$ cd hello-world
hello-world$ npm install
hello-world$ npm run test
```

## Cleanup

To delete the sample application that you created, use the AWS CLI. Assuming you used your project name for the stack name, you can run the following:

```bash
aws cloudformation delete-stack --stack-name algoa-gtfs
```

## Resources

See the [AWS SAM developer guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/serverless-application-model/latest/developerguide/what-is-sam.html) for an introduction to SAM specification, the SAM CLI, and serverless application concepts.

Next, you can use AWS Serverless Application Repository to deploy ready to use Apps that go beyond hello world samples and learn how authors developed their applications: [AWS Serverless Application Repository main page](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/)
